ADOPTERS.md, before:

# Adopters

This list represents the collection of organizations that are using PipeCD within their environments. If you are currently utilizing PipeCD and not yet on this list, we strongly encourage you to add your organization here as well!

The objective of this list is to serve as a comprehensive and authoritative resource for the entire PipeCD adopter community, while also inspiring those who are embarking on their PipeCD journey.

Contributing to this list may seem like a small effort, but it has a **big impact** on the growth, maturity, and momentum of the project. We extend our gratitude to all the adopters and contributors of the PipeCD project!

## Updating this list

To add your organization to this list, open a PR to update this list.

## PipeCD Adopters

This list is arranged in the order of organizations being added to it.

| Organization | Contact | Description of Use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [CyberAgent, Inc.](https://www.cyberagent.co.jp/) | @kentakozuka | PipeCD is used as an internal CD infrastructure, supporting over 20 projects. About 80 active piped agents are deploying about 2,900 applications in all dev, staging, and production environments. |

Commit message:

Add new adopter
Signed-off-by: Benjamin <72671586+benjx1990@users.noreply.github.com>

ADOPTERS.md, after:

# Adopters

This list represents the collection of organizations that are using PipeCD within their environments. If you are currently utilizing PipeCD and not yet on this list, we strongly encourage you to add your organization here as well!

The objective of this list is to serve as a comprehensive and authoritative resource for the entire PipeCD adopter community, while also inspiring those who are embarking on their PipeCD journey.

Contributing to this list may seem like a small effort, but it has a **big impact** on the growth, maturity, and momentum of the project. We extend our gratitude to all the adopters and contributors of the PipeCD project!

## Updating this list

To add your organization to this list, open a PR to update this list.

## PipeCD Adopters

This list is arranged in the order of organizations being added to it.

| Organization | Contact | Description of Use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [PITS Global Data Recovery Services](https://www.pitsdatarecovery.net/) | @benjx1990 | PipeCD provides an easy-to-use interface and reliable solutions for CI. |
| [CyberAgent, Inc.](https://www.cyberagent.co.jp/) | @kentakozuka | PipeCD is used as an internal CD infrastructure, supporting over 20 projects. About 80 active piped agents are deploying about 2,900 applications in all dev, staging, and production environments. |
