docs/content/en/docs-v0.47.x/user-guide/managing-application/defining-app-configuration/ecs.md, before:

---
title: "Configuring ECS application"
linkTitle: "ECS"
weight: 5
description: >
  Specific guide to configuring deployment for Amazon ECS application.
---

There are two main ways to deploy an Amazon ECS application.
- Your application is a one-time or periodic batch job.
  - it's a standalone task.
  - you need to prepare `TaskDefinition`
- Your application is deployed to run continuously or behind a load balancer.
  - you need to prepare `TaskDefinition` and `Service`

To deploy an Amazon ECS application, the `TaskDefinition` configuration file must be located in the application directory. This file contains all configuration for [ECS TaskDefinition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task_definitions.html) object and will be used by Piped agent while deploying your application/service to the ECS cluster.

To deploy your application to run continuously or to place it behind a load balancer, You need to create [ECS Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_services.html). The `Service` configuration file also must be located in the application directory. This file contains all configurations for [ECS Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_services.html) object.

If you're not familiar with ECS, you can get examples for those files from [here](../../../../examples/#ecs-applications).

Note:

You can generate an application config file easily and interactively by [`pipectl init`](../../command-line-tool.md#generating-an-application-config-apppipecdyaml).


## Quick sync

By default, when the [pipeline](../../../configuration-reference/#ecs-application) was not specified, PipeCD triggers a quick sync deployment for the merged pull request.
Quick sync for an ECS deployment will roll out the new version and switch all traffic to it immediately.
> In case of standalone task, only Quick sync is supported.

Here is an example for Quick sync.

  {{< tabpane >}}
  {{< tab lang="yaml" header="application" >}}
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: ECSApp
spec:
  name: simple
  labels:
    env: example
    team: xyz
  input:
    # Path to Service configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    serviceDefinitionFile: servicedef.yaml
    # Path to TaskDefinition configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    # Default is `taskdef.json`
    taskDefinitionFile: taskdef.yaml
    targetGroups:
      primary:
        targetGroupArn: arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:targetgroup/ecs-lb/YYYY
        containerName: web
        containerPort: 80
  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab lang="yaml" header="standalone task" >}}
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: ECSApp
spec:
  name: standalonetask-fargate
  labels:
    env: example
    team: xyz
  input:
    # Path to TaskDefinition configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    # Default is `taskdef.json`
    taskDefinitionFile: taskdef.yaml
    clusterArn: arn:aws:ecs:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:cluster/test-cluster
    awsvpcConfiguration:
      assignPublicIp: ENABLED
      subnets:
        - subnet-YYYY
        - subnet-YYYY
      securityGroups:
          - sg-YYYY
  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< /tabpane >}}

## Sync with the specified pipeline

The [pipeline](../../../configuration-reference/#ecs-application) field in the application configuration is used to customize the way to do the deployment.
You can add a manual approval before routing traffic to the new version or add an analysis stage the do some smoke tests against the new version before allowing them to receive the real traffic.

These are the provided stages for ECS application you can use to build your pipeline:

- `ECS_CANARY_ROLLOUT`
  - deploy workloads of the new version as CANARY variant, but it is still receiving no traffic.
- `ECS_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT`
  - deploy workloads of the new version as PRIMARY variant, but it is still receiving no traffic.
- `ECS_TRAFFIC_ROUTING`
  - routing traffic to the specified variants.
- `ECS_CANARY_CLEAN`
  - destroy all workloads of CANARY variant.

and other common stages:
- `WAIT`
- `WAIT_APPROVAL`
- `ANALYSIS`

See the description of each stage at [Customize application deployment](../../customizing-deployment/).

Here is an example that rolls out the new version gradually:

``` yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: ECSApp
spec:
  input:
    # Path to Service configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    serviceDefinitionFile: servicedef.yaml
    # Path to TaskDefinition configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    # Default is `taskdef.json`
    taskDefinitionFile: taskdef.yaml
    targetGroups:
      primary:
        targetGroupArn: arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:targetgroup/ecs-canary-blue/YYYY
        containerName: web
        containerPort: 80
      canary:
        targetGroupArn: arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:targetgroup/ecs-canary-green/YYYY
        containerName: web
        containerPort: 80
  pipeline:
    stages:
      # Deploy the workloads of CANARY variant, the number of workload
      # for CANARY variant is equal to 30% of PRIMARY's workload.
      # But this is still receiving no traffic.
      - name: ECS_CANARY_ROLLOUT
        with:
          scale: 30
      # Change the traffic routing state where
      # the CANARY workloads will receive the specified percentage of traffic.
      # This is known as multi-phase canary strategy.
      - name: ECS_TRAFFIC_ROUTING
        with:
          canary: 20
      # Optional: We can also add an ANALYSIS stage to verify the new version.
      # If this stage finds any not good metrics of the new version,
      # a rollback process to the previous version will be executed.
      - name: ANALYSIS
      # Update the workload of PRIMARY variant to the new version.
      - name: ECS_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      # Change the traffic routing state where
      # the PRIMARY workloads will receive 100% of the traffic.
      - name: ECS_TRAFFIC_ROUTING
        with:
          primary: 100
      # Destroy all workloads of CANARY variant.
      - name: ECS_CANARY_CLEAN
```

## NOTE

- When you use an ELB for deployments, all listener rules that have the same target groups as configured in app.pipecd.yaml will be controlled.
- For more information and diagrams, see [Issue#4733 [ECS] Modify ELB listener rules other than defaults without adding config](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/4733).

## Reference

See [Configuration Reference](../../../configuration-reference/#ecs-application) for the full configuration.

Commit message:

[doc] Added note that Canary or Blue/Green for ECS Service Connect is not supported yet (#4900)
* Add NOTE of not supporting Canary,Blue/Green with ECS Service Connect

Signed-off-by: t-kikuc <tkikuchi07f@gmail.com>

* Add NOTE of not supporting Canary,Blue/Green with ECS Service Connect: older versions

Signed-off-by: t-kikuc <tkikuchi07f@gmail.com>

* Add 'yet'

Signed-off-by: t-kikuc <tkikuchi07f@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: t-kikuc <tkikuchi07f@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: khanhtc1202 <khanhtc1202@gmail.com>

docs/content/en/docs-v0.47.x/user-guide/managing-application/defining-app-configuration/ecs.md, after:

---
title: "Configuring ECS application"
linkTitle: "ECS"
weight: 5
description: >
  Specific guide to configuring deployment for Amazon ECS application.
---

There are two main ways to deploy an Amazon ECS application.
- Your application is a one-time or periodic batch job.
  - it's a standalone task.
  - you need to prepare `TaskDefinition`
- Your application is deployed to run continuously or behind a load balancer.
  - you need to prepare `TaskDefinition` and `Service`

To deploy an Amazon ECS application, the `TaskDefinition` configuration file must be located in the application directory. This file contains all configuration for [ECS TaskDefinition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task_definitions.html) object and will be used by Piped agent while deploying your application/service to the ECS cluster.

To deploy your application to run continuously or to place it behind a load balancer, You need to create [ECS Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_services.html). The `Service` configuration file also must be located in the application directory. This file contains all configurations for [ECS Service](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_services.html) object.

If you're not familiar with ECS, you can get examples for those files from [here](../../../../examples/#ecs-applications).

Note:

You can generate an application config file easily and interactively by [`pipectl init`](../../command-line-tool.md#generating-an-application-config-apppipecdyaml).


## Quick sync

By default, when the [pipeline](../../../configuration-reference/#ecs-application) was not specified, PipeCD triggers a quick sync deployment for the merged pull request.
Quick sync for an ECS deployment will roll out the new version and switch all traffic to it immediately.
> In case of standalone task, only Quick sync is supported.

Here is an example for Quick sync.

  {{< tabpane >}}
  {{< tab lang="yaml" header="application" >}}
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: ECSApp
spec:
  name: simple
  labels:
    env: example
    team: xyz
  input:
    # Path to Service configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    serviceDefinitionFile: servicedef.yaml
    # Path to TaskDefinition configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    # Default is `taskdef.json`
    taskDefinitionFile: taskdef.yaml
    targetGroups:
      primary:
        targetGroupArn: arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:targetgroup/ecs-lb/YYYY
        containerName: web
        containerPort: 80
  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab lang="yaml" header="standalone task" >}}
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: ECSApp
spec:
  name: standalonetask-fargate
  labels:
    env: example
    team: xyz
  input:
    # Path to TaskDefinition configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    # Default is `taskdef.json`
    taskDefinitionFile: taskdef.yaml
    clusterArn: arn:aws:ecs:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:cluster/test-cluster
    awsvpcConfiguration:
      assignPublicIp: ENABLED
      subnets:
        - subnet-YYYY
        - subnet-YYYY
      securityGroups:
          - sg-YYYY
  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< /tabpane >}}

## Sync with the specified pipeline

The [pipeline](../../../configuration-reference/#ecs-application) field in the application configuration is used to customize the way to do the deployment.
You can add a manual approval before routing traffic to the new version or add an analysis stage the do some smoke tests against the new version before allowing them to receive the real traffic.

These are the provided stages for ECS application you can use to build your pipeline:

- `ECS_CANARY_ROLLOUT`
  - deploy workloads of the new version as CANARY variant, but it is still receiving no traffic.
- `ECS_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT`
  - deploy workloads of the new version as PRIMARY variant, but it is still receiving no traffic.
- `ECS_TRAFFIC_ROUTING`
  - routing traffic to the specified variants.
- `ECS_CANARY_CLEAN`
  - destroy all workloads of CANARY variant.

and other common stages:
- `WAIT`
- `WAIT_APPROVAL`
- `ANALYSIS`

See the description of each stage at [Customize application deployment](../../customizing-deployment/).

Here is an example that rolls out the new version gradually:

``` yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: ECSApp
spec:
  input:
    # Path to Service configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    serviceDefinitionFile: servicedef.yaml
    # Path to TaskDefinition configuration file in Yaml/JSON format.
    # Default is `taskdef.json`
    taskDefinitionFile: taskdef.yaml
    targetGroups:
      primary:
        targetGroupArn: arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:targetgroup/ecs-canary-blue/YYYY
        containerName: web
        containerPort: 80
      canary:
        targetGroupArn: arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:ap-northeast-1:XXXX:targetgroup/ecs-canary-green/YYYY
        containerName: web
        containerPort: 80
  pipeline:
    stages:
      # Deploy the workloads of CANARY variant, the number of workload
      # for CANARY variant is equal to 30% of PRIMARY's workload.
      # But this is still receiving no traffic.
      - name: ECS_CANARY_ROLLOUT
        with:
          scale: 30
      # Change the traffic routing state where
      # the CANARY workloads will receive the specified percentage of traffic.
      # This is known as multi-phase canary strategy.
      - name: ECS_TRAFFIC_ROUTING
        with:
          canary: 20
      # Optional: We can also add an ANALYSIS stage to verify the new version.
      # If this stage finds any not good metrics of the new version,
      # a rollback process to the previous version will be executed.
      - name: ANALYSIS
      # Update the workload of PRIMARY variant to the new version.
      - name: ECS_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      # Change the traffic routing state where
      # the PRIMARY workloads will receive 100% of the traffic.
      - name: ECS_TRAFFIC_ROUTING
        with:
          primary: 100
      # Destroy all workloads of CANARY variant.
      - name: ECS_CANARY_CLEAN
```

## NOTE

- When you use an ELB for deployments, all listener rules that have the same target groups as configured in app.pipecd.yaml will be controlled.
  - For more information and diagrams, see [Issue#4733 [ECS] Modify ELB listener rules other than defaults without adding config](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/4733).
- When you use [Service Connect](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/service-connect.html), you cannot use Canary or Blue/Green deployment yet because Service Connect does not support the external deployment yet.

## Reference

See [Configuration Reference](../../../configuration-reference/#ecs-application) for the full configuration.
