docs/content/en/docs-dev/examples/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Examples"
linkTitle: "Examples"
weight: 7
description: >
  Some examples of PipeCD in action!
---

One of the best ways to see what PipeCD can do, and learn how to deploy your applications with it, is to see some real examples.

We have prepared some examples for each kind of application.
The examples can be found at the following repository:

https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples

### Kubernetes Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/simple) | Deploy plain-yaml manifests in application directory without using pipeline. |
| [helm-local-chart](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/helm-local-chart) | Deploy a helm chart sourced from the same Git repository. |
| [helm-remote-chart](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/helm-remote-chart) | Deploy a helm chart sourced from a [Helm Chart Repository](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/chart_repository/). |
| [helm-remote-git-chart](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/helm-remote-git-chart) | Deploy a helm chart sourced from another Git repository. |
| [kustomize-local-base](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/kustomize-local-base) | Deploy a kustomize package that just uses the local bases from the same Git repository. |
| [kustomize-remote-base](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/kustomize-remote-base) | Deploy a kustomize package that uses remote bases from other Git repositories. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [canary-by-config-change](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/canary-by-config-change) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy when ConfigMap was changed. |
| [canary-patch](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/canary-patch) | Demonstrate how to customize manifests for Canary variant using [patches](../user-guide/configuration-reference/#kubernetescanaryrolloutstageoptions) option. |
| [bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with bluegreen strategy. This also contains a manual approval stage. |
| [mesh-istio-canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-istio-canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy by using Istio for traffic routing.  |
| [mesh-istio-bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-istio-bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with bluegreen strategy by using Istio for traffic routing. |
| [mesh-smi-canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-smi-canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy by using SMI for traffic routing. |
| [mesh-smi-bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-smi-bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with bluegreen strategy by using SMI for traffic routing. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [multi-steps-canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/multi-steps-canary) | Deployment pipeline with multiple canary steps. |
| [analysis-by-metrics](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-by-metrics) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by metrics. |
| [analysis-by-http](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-by-http) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by running http requests. |
| [analysis-by-log](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-by-log) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by checking logs. |
| [analysis-with-baseline](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-with-baseline) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by comparing baseline and canary. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |

### Terraform Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/simple) |  Automatically applies when any changes were detected.  |
| [local-module](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/local-module) | Deploy application that using local terraform modules from the same Git repository. |
| [remote-module](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/remote-module) | Deploy application that using remote terraform modules from other Git repositories. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [autorollback](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/auto-rollback) |  Automatically rollback the changes when deployment was failed.  |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |

### Cloud Run Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/simple) | Quick sync by rolling out the new version and switching all traffic to it. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [analysis](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/analysis) | Deployment pipeline that contains an analysis stage. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |

### Lambda Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/simple) | Quick sync by rolling out the new version and switching all traffic to it. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [analysis](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/analysis) | Deployment pipeline that contains an analysis stage. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [remote-git](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/remote-git) | Deploy the lambda code sourced from another Git repository. |
| [zip-packing-s3](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/zip-packing-s3) | Deployment pipeline of kind Lambda which uses s3 stored zip file as function code. |

### ECS Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/simple) | Quick sync by rolling out the new version and switching all traffic to it. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with blue-green strategy. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |

### Deployment chain

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/deployment-chain/simple) | Simple deployment chain which uses application name as a filter in chain configuration. |

Commit message:

Cherry-pick #4033 #4084 #4097 #4102 #4104 #4114 #4117 #4119 #4122 #4123 (#4128)
* Keep new line at end of file in yamlprocessor (#4033)

* Keep new line at end of file in yamlprocessor

* add a new line to the EOF in case of there is no  at EOF

* update comment

* update eventwatcher_test

* consider new line at EOF on parsing kubernetes manifest

* update go-yaml v1.9.8

* remove TODO because PR of go-yaml was merged

* consider to handle multiple new line at EOF

* remove indent vioration of tab

* support standalone ECS task (#4084)

Fixes https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/issues/2734

* Small lint fix (#4097)

* fix null pointer (#4102)

* fix null pointer

* apply review

* Add example for ecs standalone task (#4104)

* add example for ecs standalone task

* add example for ecs standalone task

* wip

* add yaml example to docs.

* add example for ecs standalone task

* wip

* add yaml example to docs.

* apply review

* Update docs/content/en/docs-dev/user-guide/managing-application/defining-app-configuration/ecs.md

Co-authored-by: Khanh Tran <32532742+khanhtc1202@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Khanh Tran <32532742+khanhtc1202@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add update contributions command (#4114)

* Add update contributions command

* Update hack/gen-contributions.sh

* Run update go deps (#4117)

* feature: cli and grpc to disable application (#4119)

* Add new line in detailsFormat to fix plan preview format (#4122)

* add document how to disable (#4123)

Co-authored-by: Kurochan <kuro@kurochan.org>
Co-authored-by: Tomoki Hori <50762864+TonkyH@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Khanh Tran <32532742+khanhtc1202@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: kevin55156 <68955641+kevin55156@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Yoshiaki Ishihara <39365493+yoiki@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/en/docs-dev/examples/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Examples"
linkTitle: "Examples"
weight: 7
description: >
  Some examples of PipeCD in action!
---

One of the best ways to see what PipeCD can do, and learn how to deploy your applications with it, is to see some real examples.

We have prepared some examples for each kind of application.
The examples can be found at the following repository:

https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples

### Kubernetes Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/simple) | Deploy plain-yaml manifests in application directory without using pipeline. |
| [helm-local-chart](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/helm-local-chart) | Deploy a helm chart sourced from the same Git repository. |
| [helm-remote-chart](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/helm-remote-chart) | Deploy a helm chart sourced from a [Helm Chart Repository](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/chart_repository/). |
| [helm-remote-git-chart](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/helm-remote-git-chart) | Deploy a helm chart sourced from another Git repository. |
| [kustomize-local-base](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/kustomize-local-base) | Deploy a kustomize package that just uses the local bases from the same Git repository. |
| [kustomize-remote-base](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/kustomize-remote-base) | Deploy a kustomize package that uses remote bases from other Git repositories. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [canary-by-config-change](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/canary-by-config-change) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy when ConfigMap was changed. |
| [canary-patch](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/canary-patch) | Demonstrate how to customize manifests for Canary variant using [patches](../user-guide/configuration-reference/#kubernetescanaryrolloutstageoptions) option. |
| [bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with bluegreen strategy. This also contains a manual approval stage. |
| [mesh-istio-canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-istio-canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy by using Istio for traffic routing.  |
| [mesh-istio-bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-istio-bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with bluegreen strategy by using Istio for traffic routing. |
| [mesh-smi-canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-smi-canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy by using SMI for traffic routing. |
| [mesh-smi-bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/mesh-smi-bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with bluegreen strategy by using SMI for traffic routing. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [multi-steps-canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/multi-steps-canary) | Deployment pipeline with multiple canary steps. |
| [analysis-by-metrics](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-by-metrics) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by metrics. |
| [analysis-by-http](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-by-http) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by running http requests. |
| [analysis-by-log](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-by-log) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by checking logs. |
| [analysis-with-baseline](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/analysis-with-baseline) | Deployment pipeline with analysis stage by comparing baseline and canary. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/kubernetes/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |

### Terraform Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/simple) |  Automatically applies when any changes were detected.  |
| [local-module](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/local-module) | Deploy application that using local terraform modules from the same Git repository. |
| [remote-module](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/remote-module) | Deploy application that using remote terraform modules from other Git repositories. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [autorollback](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/auto-rollback) |  Automatically rollback the changes when deployment was failed.  |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/terraform/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |

### Cloud Run Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/simple) | Quick sync by rolling out the new version and switching all traffic to it. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [analysis](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/analysis) | Deployment pipeline that contains an analysis stage. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/cloudrun/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |

### Lambda Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/simple) | Quick sync by rolling out the new version and switching all traffic to it. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [analysis](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/analysis) | Deployment pipeline that contains an analysis stage. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [remote-git](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/remote-git) | Deploy the lambda code sourced from another Git repository. |
| [zip-packing-s3](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/lambda/zip-packing-s3) | Deployment pipeline of kind Lambda which uses s3 stored zip file as function code. |

### ECS Applications

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/simple) | Quick sync by rolling out the new version and switching all traffic to it. |
| [canary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/canary) | Deployment pipeline with canary strategy. |
| [bluegreen](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/bluegreen) | Deployment pipeline with blue-green strategy. |
| [secret-management](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/secret-management) | Demonstrate how to manage sensitive data by using [Secret Management](../user-guide/managing-application/secret-management/) feature. |
| [wait-approval](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/wait-approval) | Deployment pipeline that contains a manual approval stage. |
| [standalone-task](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/ecs/standalone-task) | Deployment Standalone Task. (`Standalone task is only supported for Quick sync`) |


### Deployment chain

| Name                                                                        | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| [simple](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples/tree/master/deployment-chain/simple) | Simple deployment chain which uses application name as a filter in chain configuration. |
