docs/content/en/docs-dev/migrating-from-v0-to-v1/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Migrating to PipeCD V1"
linkTitle: "Migrating to PipeCD V1"
weight: 90
description: >
  Documentation on migrating your application from PipeCD V0 to V1
---

This page explains how to safely migrate your existing PipeCD System to the RC version of **PipeCD V1**, the new plugin-based architecture that brings modularity and extensibility to PipeCD.

## Overview

PipeCD V1 introduces a **pluggable architecture** that allows developers to add and maintain custom deployment and operational plugins without modifying the core system of PipeCD.

Migration from v0 is designed to be **safe** and **incremental**, allowing you to switch to PipeCD V1 with minimal disruption.

## Components

The PipeCD System has 2 main components:

| Component | Description | Compatibility |
|------------|--------------|----------------|
| **Control Plane** | Manages projects, deployments, and applications. | Supports both piped and pipedv1 concurrently. |
| **Piped** | Manages the actual deployment and syncing of applications. | Backward compatible - You can switch back to old piped versions. |

---

## Prerequisites

Before you start, ensure that:

- You are running the latest version of PipeCD **(v0.55.0)**.
  - You have the **latest Control Plane** installed.
  - You have the **latest version of `pipectl` and `piped`**.

> **Note:** If you’re new to the plugin architecture, read:
>
> - [Overview of the plan for plugin-enabled PipeCD](https://pipecd.dev/blog/2024/11/28/overview-of-the-plan-for-pluginnable-pipecd/)
> - [What’s new in pipedv1](https://pipecd.dev/blog/2025/09/02/what-is-new-in-pipedv1-plugin-arch-piped/)

---

## Migration Process Overview

The migration flow involves the following steps:

1. [Update `pipectl`](#1-update-pipectl)
2. [Convert application configurations to the v1 format](#2-convert-application-configurations-to-v1-format)
3. [Update the application model in the Control Plane database](#3-update-application-model-in-control-plane-database)
4. [Update piped configuration for v1](#4-update-piped-configuration-for-v1-plugin-definition)
5. [Deploy and verify pipedv1](#5-installing-pipedv1)

---

## 1. Update pipectl

Install or upgrade your `pipectl` to the latest version

```bash
# Example for upgrading pipectl
curl -Lo ./pipectl https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/v0.55.0/pipectl_<OS>_<ARCH>
chmod +x ./pipectl
mv ./pipectl /usr/local/bin/
```

Verify the version:

```bash
pipectl version
```

>**Note:**
>Replace `<OS>` and `<ARCH>` in the URL with your system values:
> - "OS: `linux` or `darwin`"
> - "ARCH: `amd64` or `arm64`"
>
>You can check all releases on the [Pipecd Releases](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases) page.

## 2. Convert Application Configurations to v1 Format

Convert your existing `app.pipecd.yaml` configurations to the new **v1 format**:

```bash
pipectl migrate application-config \
  --config-files=path/to/app1.pipecd.yaml,path/to/app2.pipecd.yaml
```

Or specify an entire directory:

```bash
pipectl migrate application-config --dirs=path/to/apps/
```

Here is an example for a simple app.pippcd.yaml file which demonstrates a kubernetes deployment and simulates a 30s wait:

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
spec:
  name: v1-kubernetes-wait
  labels:
    owner: pipecd
    env: local
  planner:
    alwaysUsePipeline: true
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: WAIT
        with:
          duration: 30s
```

After conversion, your `app.pipecd.yaml` files will be compatible with both `piped` and `pipedv1`.
> **Recommended:** Trigger a deployment using the latest piped version after converting configurations to verify backward compatibility.

## 3. Update Application Model in Control Plane Database

Use `pipectl` to update the application models stored in your Control Plane database.

You’ll need an API key with write permission. Check:

- [Generating an API key](https://pipecd.dev/docs/user-guide/command-line-tool/#authentication)

After obtaining your API key, Run:

```bash
pipectl migrate database \
  --address=<control-plane-address> \
  --api-key-file=<path-to-api-key> \
  --applications=<app-1-id>,<app-2-id>
```

This adds the new `deployTargets` field to your application models, replacing the deprecated `platformProvider`.

You can confirm success by checking the **Application Details** page in the Control Plane UI — the **Deploy Targets** field should now appear.

## 4. Update piped Configuration for v1 (Plugin Definition)

In pipedv1, **platform providers** have been replaced by **plugins**. Each plugin defines its deploy targets and configuration.

### Example (Old piped config)

Your exisiting `piped` config may look similar to the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: Piped
spec:
  projectID: dev
  pipedID: piped-id
  pipedKeyData: piped-key-data
  apiAddress: controlplane.pipecd.dev:443
  git:
    sshKeyFile: /etc/piped-secret/ssh-key
  repositories:
    - repoId: examples
      remote: https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples.git
      branch: master
  syncInterval: 1m
  platformProviders:
    - name: kubernetes-dev
      type: KUBERNETES
      config:
        kubectlVersion: 1.32.4
        kubeConfigPath: /users/home/.kube/config
```

### Example (New pipedv1 config)

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: Piped
spec:
  projectID: dev
  pipedID: piped-id
  pipedKeyData: piped-key-data
  apiAddress: controlplane.pipecd.dev:443
  git:
    sshKeyFile: /etc/piped-secret/ssh-key
  repositories:
    - repoId: examples
      remote: https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples.git
      branch: master
  syncInterval: 1m
  plugins:
    - name: kubernetes
      port: 7001
      url: https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/k8s-plugin
      deployTargets:
        - name: local
          config:
            kubectlVersion: 1.32.4
            kubeConfigPath: /users/home/.kube/config
    - name: wait
      port: 7002
      url: https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/wait-plugin
```

**Changes:**

- The contents of `platformProviders[].config` are now defined under `plugins[].deployTargets[].config`.
- The contents of `analysisProviders` are now defined under `plugins[analysis].config.analysisProviders`.
- Each plugin requires a `url` field that specifies where to download the plugin binary.
- Officially released plugins can be found on the [PipeCD releases page](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases).

- Some examples:
  - [Kubernetes Plugin v0.1.0](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pkg%2Fapp%2Fpipedv1%2Fplugin%2Fkubernetes%2Fv0.1.0)

## 5. Installing pipedv1

Once your configuration is updated and validated, you're ready to install the pipedv1 binary. You can install the latest stable or any specific release of `pipedv1` depending on your deployment needs.

All official builds are published under the [Pipecd Releases](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases) page.

Example:

- [v1.0.0-rc6](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc6)
- [v1.0.0-rc5](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc5)
- [v1.0.0-rc3](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc3)

>**Warning:**
> Before switching to `pipedv1`, stop your existing Piped process to avoid conflicts, as both versions use the same `piped-id`.

Once you have prepared your pipedv1 configuration, there are a few different ways to deploy it.

### Option 1 - Deploy via Helm (Kubernetes)

If you are deploying Piped as a pod in a Kubernetes cluster, use the following Helm command:

```bash
helm upgrade -i pipedv1-exp oci://ghcr.io/pipe-cd/chart/pipedv1-exp \
  --version=v1.0.0-rc6 \
  --namespace=<NAMESPACE_TO_INSTALL_PIPEDV1> \
  --create-namespace \
  --set-file config.data=<PATH_TO_PIPEDV1_CONFIG_FILE> \
  --set-file secret.data.ssh-key=<PATH_TO_GIT_SSH_KEY>
```

### Option 2 - Run the `pipedv1` directly

You can also run the `pipedv1` binary directly in your local environment:

```bash
# Download pipedv1 binary
# OS: "darwin" or "linux" | CPU_ARCH: "arm64" or "amd64"
curl -Lo ./piped https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc6/pipedv1_v1.0.0-rc6_<OS>_<CPU_ARCH>
chmod +x ./piped

# Run piped binary
./piped piped --config-file=<PATH_TO_PIPEDV1_CONFIG_FILE> --tools-dir=/tmp/piped-bin
```

If your Control Plane is running locally, append the `--insecure=true` flag to skip TLS certificate verification:

```bash
./piped piped --config-file=<PATH_TO_PIPEDV1_CONFIG_FILE> --tools-dir=/tmp/piped-bin --insecure=true
```

---

## Want to switch back?

If you need to roll back to the original `piped` process, you can do so safely at any time.

Simply **stop** the running `pipedv1` instance, then **start** the `pipedv0` service as you normally would.

> **Warning:**
> The configuration files for `piped` and `pipedv1` are **not interchangeable**.
> Make sure to restore or reference the correct configuration file before restarting pipedv0.

Once restarted, the old `pipedv0` should resume operation using its previous configuration and state. Happy Pipe-CDing!

---

Commit message:

update/migrating-doc (added container install, some final grammar fixes)
Signed-off-by: Eeshaan Sawant <eeshaans1@gmail.com>

docs/content/en/docs-dev/migrating-from-v0-to-v1/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Migrating to PipeCD V1"
linkTitle: "Migrating to PipeCD V1"
weight: 90
description: >
  Documentation on migrating your application from PipeCD V0 to V1
---

This page explains how to safely migrate your existing PipeCD System to the RC version of **PipeCD V1**, the new plugin-based architecture that brings modularity and extensibility to PipeCD.

## Overview

PipeCD V1 introduces a **pluggable architecture** that allows developers to add and maintain custom deployment and operational plugins without modifying the core system of PipeCD.

Migration from v0 is designed to be **safe** and **incremental**, allowing you to switch to PipeCD V1 with minimal disruption.

## Components

The PipeCD System has 2 main components:

| Component | Description | Compatibility |
|------------|--------------|----------------|
| **Control Plane** | Manages projects, deployments, and applications. | Supports both piped and pipedv1 concurrently. |
| **Piped** | Manages the actual deployment and syncing of applications. | Backward compatible - You can switch back to old piped versions. |

---

## Prerequisites

Before you start, ensure that:

- You are running the latest version of PipeCD **(v0.55.0)**.
  - You have the **latest Control Plane** installed.
  - You have the **latest version of `pipectl` and `piped`**.

> **Note:** If you’re new to the plugin architecture, read:
>
> - [Overview of the plan for plugin-enabled PipeCD](https://pipecd.dev/blog/2024/11/28/overview-of-the-plan-for-pluginnable-pipecd/)
> - [What’s new in pipedv1](https://pipecd.dev/blog/2025/09/02/what-is-new-in-pipedv1-plugin-arch-piped/)

---

## Migration Process Overview

The migration flow involves the following steps:

1. [Update `pipectl`](#1-update-pipectl)
2. [Convert application configurations to the v1 format](#2-convert-application-configurations-to-v1-format)
3. [Update the application model in the Control Plane database](#3-update-application-model-in-control-plane-database)
4. [Update piped configuration for v1](#4-update-piped-configuration-for-v1-plugin-definition)
5. [Deploy and verify pipedv1](#5-installing-pipedv1)

---

## 1. Update pipectl

Install or upgrade your `pipectl` to the latest version

```bash
# Example for upgrading pipectl
curl -Lo ./pipectl https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/v0.55.0/pipectl_<OS>_<ARCH>
chmod +x ./pipectl
mv ./pipectl /usr/local/bin/
```

Verify the version:

```bash
pipectl version
```

>**Note:**
>Replace `<OS>` and `<ARCH>` in the URL with your system values:
>
> - "OS: `linux` or `darwin`"
> - "ARCH: `amd64` or `arm64`"
>
>You can check all releases on the [Pipecd Releases](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases) page.

## 2. Convert Application Configurations to v1 Format

Convert your existing `app.pipecd.yaml` configurations to the new **v1 format**:

```bash
pipectl migrate application-config \
  --config-files=path/to/app1.pipecd.yaml,path/to/app2.pipecd.yaml
```

Or specify an entire directory:

```bash
pipectl migrate application-config --dirs=path/to/apps/
```

Here is an example for a simple app.pippcd.yaml file which demonstrates a kubernetes deployment and simulates a 30s wait:

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
spec:
  name: v1-kubernetes-wait
  labels:
    owner: pipecd
    env: local
  planner:
    alwaysUsePipeline: true
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: WAIT
        with:
          duration: 30s
```

After conversion, your `app.pipecd.yaml` files will be compatible with both `piped` and `pipedv1`.
> **Recommended:** Trigger a deployment using the latest piped version after converting configurations to verify backward compatibility.

## 3. Update Application Model in Control Plane Database

Use `pipectl` to update the application models stored in your Control Plane database.

You’ll need an API key with write permission. Check:

- [Generating an API key](https://pipecd.dev/docs/user-guide/command-line-tool/#authentication)

After obtaining your API key, Run:

```bash
pipectl migrate database \
  --address=<control-plane-address> \
  --api-key-file=<path-to-api-key> \
  --applications=<app-1-id>,<app-2-id>
```

This adds the new `deployTargets` field to your application models, replacing the deprecated `platformProvider`.

You can confirm success by checking the **Application Details** page in the Control Plane UI — the **Deploy Targets** field should now appear.

## 4. Update piped Configuration for v1 (Plugin Definition)

In pipedv1, **platform providers** have been replaced by **plugins**. Each plugin defines its deploy targets and configuration.

### Example (Old piped config)

Your exisiting `piped` config may look similar to the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: Piped
spec:
  projectID: dev
  pipedID: piped-id
  pipedKeyData: piped-key-data
  apiAddress: controlplane.pipecd.dev:443
  git:
    sshKeyFile: /etc/piped-secret/ssh-key
  repositories:
    - repoId: examples
      remote: https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples.git
      branch: master
  syncInterval: 1m
  platformProviders:
    - name: kubernetes-dev
      type: KUBERNETES
      config:
        kubectlVersion: 1.32.4
        kubeConfigPath: /users/home/.kube/config
```

### Example (New pipedv1 config)

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: Piped
spec:
  projectID: dev
  pipedID: piped-id
  pipedKeyData: piped-key-data
  apiAddress: controlplane.pipecd.dev:443
  git:
    sshKeyFile: /etc/piped-secret/ssh-key
  repositories:
    - repoId: examples
      remote: https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples.git
      branch: master
  syncInterval: 1m
  plugins:
    - name: kubernetes
      port: 7001
      url: https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/k8s-plugin
      deployTargets:
        - name: local
          config:
            kubectlVersion: 1.32.4
            kubeConfigPath: /users/home/.kube/config
    - name: wait
      port: 7002
      url: https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/wait-plugin
```

**Changes:**

- The contents of `platformProviders[].config` are now defined under `plugins[].deployTargets[].config`.
- The contents of `analysisProviders` are now defined under `plugins[analysis].config.analysisProviders`.
- Each plugin requires a `url` field that specifies where to download the plugin binary.
- Officially released plugins can be found on the [PipeCD releases page](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases).

- Some examples:
  - [Kubernetes Plugin v0.1.0](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pkg%2Fapp%2Fpipedv1%2Fplugin%2Fkubernetes%2Fv0.1.0)

## 5. Installing pipedv1

Once your configuration is updated and validated, you're ready to install the pipedv1 binary. You can install the latest stable or any specific release of `pipedv1` depending on your deployment needs.

All official builds are published under the [Pipecd Releases](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases) page.

Example:

- [v1.0.0-rc6](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc6)
- [v1.0.0-rc5](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc5)
- [v1.0.0-rc3](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc3)

>**Warning:**
> Before switching to `pipedv1`, stop your existing Piped process to avoid conflicts, as both versions use the same `piped-id`.

Once you have prepared your pipedv1 configuration, there are a few different ways to deploy it.

### Option 1 - Deploy via Helm (Kubernetes)

If you are deploying Piped as a pod in a Kubernetes cluster, use the following Helm command:

```bash
helm upgrade -i pipedv1-exp oci://ghcr.io/pipe-cd/chart/pipedv1-exp \
  --version=v1.0.0-rc6 \
  --namespace=<NAMESPACE_TO_INSTALL_PIPEDV1> \
  --create-namespace \
  --set-file config.data=<PATH_TO_PIPEDV1_CONFIG_FILE> \
  --set-file secret.data.ssh-key=<PATH_TO_GIT_SSH_KEY>
```

### Option 2 - Run the `pipedv1` as a Standalone Binary

You can also run the `pipedv1` binary directly in your local environment:

```bash
# Download pipedv1 binary
# OS: "darwin" or "linux" | CPU_ARCH: "arm64" or "amd64"
curl -Lo ./piped https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/pipedv1%2Fexp%2Fv1.0.0-rc6/pipedv1_v1.0.0-rc6_<OS>_<CPU_ARCH>
chmod +x ./piped

# Run piped binary
./piped piped --config-file=<PATH_TO_PIPEDV1_CONFIG_FILE> --tools-dir=/tmp/piped-bin
```

If your Control Plane is running locally, append the `--insecure=true` flag to skip TLS certificate verification:

```bash
./piped piped --config-file=<PATH_TO_PIPEDV1_CONFIG_FILE> --tools-dir=/tmp/piped-bin --insecure=true
```

### Option 3 - Run `pipedv1` as a Container

In addtion to running piped using Helm or as a standalone binary, you can also run it as a container. This is useful for environments such as CloudRun, ECS Fargate or more.

A prebuilt container image of `pipedv1` is available on GitHub Container Registry:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/pipe-cd/pipedv1-exp:<version>
```

> **Note:**
> You can find the list of published versions here:
> [ghcr.io/pipe-cd/pipedv1-exp](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pkgs/container/pipedv1-exp)

---

## Want to switch back?

If you need to roll back to using PipeCD V0, you can do so safely at any time.

Simply **stop** the running `pipedv1` instance, then **start** the `pipedv0` service as you normally would.

> **Warning:**
> The configuration files for `piped` and `pipedv1` are **not interchangeable**.
> Make sure to restore or reference the correct configuration file before restarting pipedv0.

Once restarted, the old `pipedv0` should resume operation using its previous configuration and state. Happy Pipe-CDing!

---
