docs/content/en/docs-v0.43.x/quickstart/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Quickstart"
linkTitle: "Quickstart"
weight: 3
description: >
  This page describes how to quickly get started with PipeCD on Kubernetes.
---

This page is a guideline for installing PipeCD into your Kubernetes cluster and deploying a "hello world" application to that same Kubernetes cluster.

Note: It's not required to install the PipeCD control plane to the cluster where your applications are running. Please read this [blog post](/blog/2021/12/29/pipecd-best-practice-01-operate-your-own-pipecd-cluster/) to understand more about PipeCD in real life use cases.

### Prerequisites
- Having a Kubernetes cluster and connect to it via [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).
- Forked the [Examples](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples) repository

### 1. Installing PipeCD in quickstart mode

#### 1.1. Installing PipeCD client

##### Method 1: Official Installation
The official PipeCD client named `pipectl` can be installed using the following command

``` console
# OS="darwin" or "linux"
curl -Lo ./pipectl https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/{{< blocks/latest_version >}}/pipectl_{{< blocks/latest_version >}}_{OS}_amd64
```

Then make the pipectl binary executable

``` console
chmod +x ./pipectl
```

You can also move the pipectl binary to the $PATH for later use

```console
sudo mv ./pipectl /usr/local/bin/pipectl
```

##### Method 2: [Asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) Supported Installation

```console
asdf plugin add pipectl && asdf install pipectl latest && asdf global pipectl latest
```

#### 1.2. Installing PipeCD's components

We can simply use __pipectl quickstart__ command to start the PipeCD installation process and follow the instruction

```console
pipectl quickstart --version {{< blocks/latest_version >}}
```

Follow the instruction, the PipeCD control plane will be installed with a default project named `quickstart`. You can access to the PipeCD console at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080?project=quickstart) and pipectl command will open the PipeCD console automatically on your browser.

To login, you can use the configured static admin account as below:
- username: `hello-pipecd`
- password: `hello-pipecd`

![](/images/quickstart-login-form.png)

After logged in successfully, the browser will redirect you to the PipeCD console settings page at `piped` settings tab. You will find the `+ADD` button on the top of this page, click there and insert information to register the deployment runner for PipeCD (called `piped`).

![](/images/quickstart-adding-piped.png)

Click on the `Save` button, and then you can see the piped-id and secret-key.

![](/images/quickstart-piped-registered.png)

Use the above value to fill the form showing on the terminal you run __pipectl quickstart__ command

```console
...
Fill up your registered Piped information:
✔ ID: 2bf655c6-d7a8-4b97-8480-43fb0155539e
✔ Key: 02s3b0b6bo07kvzr8662tke4i292uo5n8w1x9pn8q9rww5lk0b
GitRemoteRepo: https://github.com/{FORKED_GITHUB_ORG}/examples.git

```

That's all!

Note: The __pipectl quickstart__ command will keep running to expose your PipeCD console on `localhost:8080`. If you stop the process, the installed PipeCD components will not lost, you can access to the PipeCD console anytime using __kubectl port-forward__ command

```console
kubectl -n pipecd port-forward svc/pipecd 8080
```

### 2. Deploy a kubernetes application with PipeCD

Above are all we need to set up your own PipeCD (both control plane and agent), let's use the installed one to deploy your first Kubernetes application with PipeCD.

#### 2.1. Registering a Kubernetes application
Navigate to the `Applications` page, click on the `+ADD` button on the top left corner.

Go to the `ADD FROM SUGGESTIONS` tab, then select:
- Piped: `dev` (you just registered)
- PlatformProvider: `kubernetes-default`

You should see a lot of suggested applications. Select the `canary` application and click the `SAVE` button to register.

![](/images/quickstart-adding-application-from-suggestions.png)

After a bit, the first deployment would be complete automatically to sync the application to the state specified in the current Git commit.

![](/images/quickstart-first-deployment.png)

#### 2.2. Let's deploy!
Let's get started with deployment! All you have to do is to make a PR to update the image tag, scale the replicas, or change the manifests.

For instance, open the `kubernetes/canary/deployment.yaml` under the forked examples' repository, then change the tag from `v0.1.0` to `v0.2.0`.

![](/images/quickstart-update-image-tag.png)

After a short wait, a new deployment will be started to update to `v0.2.0`.

![](/images/quickstart-deploying.png)

### 3. Cleanup
When you’re finished experimenting with PipeCD quickstart mode, you can uninstall it using:

``` console
pipectl quickstart --uninstall
```

### What's next?

To prepare your PipeCD for a production environment, please visit the [Installation](../installation/) guideline. For guidelines to use PipeCD to deploy your application in daily usage, please visit the [User guide](../user-guide/) docs.

Commit message:

[doc] Add authentication to GitHub Container Registry to the Prerequisites section in QuickStart Page (#4773)
* Add authentication to GitHub Container Registry to the Prerequisites section in QuickStart Page

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry in v0.39.x doc

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry in v0.40.x doc

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry in v0.41.x doc

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry in v0.42.x doc

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry in v0.43.x doc

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

* Add authentication step for GitHub Container Registry in v0.44.x doc

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: tatsuya0429 <ishimoto.t1247@gmail.com>

docs/content/en/docs-v0.43.x/quickstart/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Quickstart"
linkTitle: "Quickstart"
weight: 3
description: >
  This page describes how to quickly get started with PipeCD on Kubernetes.
---

This page is a guideline for installing PipeCD into your Kubernetes cluster and deploying a "hello world" application to that same Kubernetes cluster.

Note: It's not required to install the PipeCD control plane to the cluster where your applications are running. Please read this [blog post](/blog/2021/12/29/pipecd-best-practice-01-operate-your-own-pipecd-cluster/) to understand more about PipeCD in real life use cases.

### Prerequisites
- Having a Kubernetes cluster and connect to it via [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).
- Forked the [Examples](https://github.com/pipe-cd/examples) repository
- Prepare for authentication to [GitHub Container Registry](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry#authenticating-to-the-container-registry).

### 1. Installing PipeCD in quickstart mode

#### 1.1. Installing PipeCD client

##### Method 1: Official Installation
The official PipeCD client named `pipectl` can be installed using the following command

``` console
# OS="darwin" or "linux"
curl -Lo ./pipectl https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/download/{{< blocks/latest_version >}}/pipectl_{{< blocks/latest_version >}}_{OS}_amd64
```

Then make the pipectl binary executable

``` console
chmod +x ./pipectl
```

You can also move the pipectl binary to the $PATH for later use

```console
sudo mv ./pipectl /usr/local/bin/pipectl
```

##### Method 2: [Asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) Supported Installation

```console
asdf plugin add pipectl && asdf install pipectl latest && asdf global pipectl latest
```

#### 1.2. Installing PipeCD's components

We can simply use __pipectl quickstart__ command to start the PipeCD installation process and follow the instruction

```console
pipectl quickstart --version {{< blocks/latest_version >}}
```

Follow the instruction, the PipeCD control plane will be installed with a default project named `quickstart`. You can access to the PipeCD console at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080?project=quickstart) and pipectl command will open the PipeCD console automatically on your browser.

To login, you can use the configured static admin account as below:
- username: `hello-pipecd`
- password: `hello-pipecd`

![](/images/quickstart-login-form.png)

After logged in successfully, the browser will redirect you to the PipeCD console settings page at `piped` settings tab. You will find the `+ADD` button on the top of this page, click there and insert information to register the deployment runner for PipeCD (called `piped`).

![](/images/quickstart-adding-piped.png)

Click on the `Save` button, and then you can see the piped-id and secret-key.

![](/images/quickstart-piped-registered.png)

Use the above value to fill the form showing on the terminal you run __pipectl quickstart__ command

```console
...
Fill up your registered Piped information:
✔ ID: 2bf655c6-d7a8-4b97-8480-43fb0155539e
✔ Key: 02s3b0b6bo07kvzr8662tke4i292uo5n8w1x9pn8q9rww5lk0b
GitRemoteRepo: https://github.com/{FORKED_GITHUB_ORG}/examples.git

```

That's all!

Note: The __pipectl quickstart__ command will keep running to expose your PipeCD console on `localhost:8080`. If you stop the process, the installed PipeCD components will not lost, you can access to the PipeCD console anytime using __kubectl port-forward__ command

```console
kubectl -n pipecd port-forward svc/pipecd 8080
```

### 2. Deploy a kubernetes application with PipeCD

Above are all we need to set up your own PipeCD (both control plane and agent), let's use the installed one to deploy your first Kubernetes application with PipeCD.

#### 2.1. Registering a Kubernetes application
Navigate to the `Applications` page, click on the `+ADD` button on the top left corner.

Go to the `ADD FROM SUGGESTIONS` tab, then select:
- Piped: `dev` (you just registered)
- PlatformProvider: `kubernetes-default`

You should see a lot of suggested applications. Select the `canary` application and click the `SAVE` button to register.

![](/images/quickstart-adding-application-from-suggestions.png)

After a bit, the first deployment would be complete automatically to sync the application to the state specified in the current Git commit.

![](/images/quickstart-first-deployment.png)

#### 2.2. Let's deploy!
Let's get started with deployment! All you have to do is to make a PR to update the image tag, scale the replicas, or change the manifests.

For instance, open the `kubernetes/canary/deployment.yaml` under the forked examples' repository, then change the tag from `v0.1.0` to `v0.2.0`.

![](/images/quickstart-update-image-tag.png)

After a short wait, a new deployment will be started to update to `v0.2.0`.

![](/images/quickstart-deploying.png)

### 3. Cleanup
When you’re finished experimenting with PipeCD quickstart mode, you can uninstall it using:

``` console
pipectl quickstart --uninstall
```

### What's next?

To prepare your PipeCD for a production environment, please visit the [Installation](../installation/) guideline. For guidelines to use PipeCD to deploy your application in daily usage, please visit the [User guide](../user-guide/) docs.
