cmd/piped/README.md, before:

# Piped Agent
## Development

## Prerequisites

- [Go 1.19 or later](https://go.dev/)

## Repositories
- [pipecd](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd): contains all source code and documentation of PipeCD project.

## Commands

- `make build/go`: builds all go modules including pipecd, piped, pipectl.
- `make test/go`: runs all unit tests of go modules.
- `make run/piped`: runs Piped locally (for more information, see [here](#how-to-run-piped-agent-locally)).
- `make gen/code`: generate Go and Typescript code from protos and mock configs. You need to run it if you modified any proto or mock definition files.

For the full list of available commands, please see the Makefile at the root of repository.

## How to run Piped agent locally

1. Prepare the piped configuration file `piped-config.yaml`

2. Ensure that your `kube-context` is connecting to the right kubernetes cluster

3. Run the following command to start running `piped` (if you want to connect Piped to a locally running Control Plane, add `INSECURE=true` option)

    ``` console
    make run/piped CONFIG_FILE=piped-config.yaml
    ```

Commit message:

Add docs and example config for local development
Signed-off-by: Kenta Kozuka <kenta.kozuka@gmail.com>

cmd/piped/README.md, after:

# Piped Agent
## Development

## Prerequisites

- [Go 1.19 or later](https://go.dev/)

## Repositories
- [pipecd](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd): contains all source code and documentation of PipeCD project.

## Commands

- `make build/go`: builds all go modules including pipecd, piped, pipectl.
- `make test/go`: runs all unit tests of go modules.
- `make run/piped`: runs Piped locally (for more information, see [here](#how-to-run-piped-agent-locally)).
- `make gen/code`: generate Go and Typescript code from protos and mock configs. You need to run it if you modified any proto or mock definition files.

For the full list of available commands, please see the Makefile at the root of the repository.

## Setup Control Plane

1. Prepare Control Plane that piped connects. If you want to run a control plane locally, see [How to run Control Plane locally](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/tree/master/cmd/pipecd#how-to-run-control-plane-locally).

2. Access to Control Plane console, go to Piped list page and add a new piped. Then, copy generated Piped ID and key for `piped-config.yaml`

## How to run Piped agent locally

1. Prepare the piped configuration file `piped-config.yaml`. You can find an example config [here](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/tree/master/cmd/piped/example/piped-config.yaml).

2. Ensure that your `kube-context` is connecting to the right kubernetes cluster

3. Run the following command to start running `piped` (if you want to connect Piped to a locally running Control Plane, add `INSECURE=true` option)

    ``` console
    make run/piped CONFIG_FILE=cmd/piped/example/piped-config.yaml
    ```

## How to add an application to PipeCD

1. Access the console, go Application page and click `ADD` button, select a platform provider and application(e.g. `name: simple, repo example` if you use the example repository). Then, click `SAVE`. PipeCD automatically will run its deployment.

2. You can see the deployment running on the Deployment list page on the console. When the deployment is done, you can check the application running in your cluster;

    ``` console
    > kubectl get pods
    NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    simple-6b47c4c69b-9fmgg   1/1     Running   0          3m6s
    simple-6b47c4c69b-qzpj8   1/1     Running   0          3m6s
    ```
