docs/content/en/docs-dev/user-guide/managing-application/customizing-deployment/script-run.md, before:

---
title: "Script Run stage"
linkTitle: "Script Run stage"
weight: 4
description: >
   Specific guide for configuring Script Run stage
---

`SCRIPT_RUN` stage is one stage in the pipeline and you can execute any commands.

> Note: This feature is at the alpha status and currently only for the application kind of KubernetesApp.

## How to configure SCRIPT_RUN stage

Add a `SCRIPT_RUN` to your pipeline and write commands. 

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: canary-with-script-run
  labels:
    env: example
    team: product
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
        with:
          replicas: 10%
      - name: WAIT
        with:
          duration: 10s
      - name: SCRIPT_RUN
        with:
          env:
            MSG: "execute script1"
          run: |
            echo $MSG
            sleep 10
      - name: K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      - name: K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
      - name: SCRIPT_RUN
        with:
          env:
            MSG: "execute script2"
          run: |
            echo $MSG
            sleep 10
```

You can define the command as `run`.
Also, if you want to some values as variables, you can define them as `env`.

The commands run in the directory where this application configuration file exists.

![](/images/script-run.png)

# When to rollback

You can define the command as `onRollback` to execute when to rollback similar to `run`.
Execute the command to rollback SCRIPT_RUN to the point where the deployment was canceled or failed.

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: canary-with-script-run
  labels:
    env: example
    team: product
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
        with:
          replicas: 10%
      - name: WAIT
        with:
          duration: 10s
      - name: SCRIPT_RUN
        with:
          env:
            MSG: "execute script1"
            R_MSG: "rollback script1"
          run: |
            echo $MSG
            sleep 10
          onRollback: |
            echo $R_MSG
            sleep 10
      - name: K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      - name: K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
```

![](/images/script-run-onRollback.png)

The command defined as `onRollback` is executed as `SCRIPT_RUN_ROLLBACK` stage after each `ROLLBACK` stage.

When there are multiple SCRIPT_RUN stages, they are executed in the same order as SCRIPT_RUN on the pipeline.
Also, only for the executed SCRIPT_RUNs are rollbacked.

For example, consider when deployment proceeds in the following order from 1 to 7.
```
1. K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
2. WAIT
3. SCRIPT_RUN
4. K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
5. SCRIPT_RUN
6. K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
7. SCRIPT_RUN
```

Then
- If 3 is canceled or fails while running, only SCRIPT_RUN of 3 will be rollbacked.
- If 4 is canceled or fails while running, only SCRIPT_RUN of 3 will be rollbacked.
- If 6 is canceled or fails while running, only SCRIPT_RUNs 3 and 5 will be rollbacked. The order of executing is 3 -> 5.

# Note
1. You can use `SCRIPT_RUN` stage with only the application kind of `KubernetesApp`. Soon we will implement it. for other application kinds.

2. The public piped image available in PipeCD main repo (ref: [Dockerfile](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/blob/master/cmd/piped/Dockerfile)) is based on [alpine](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine/) and only has a few UNIX command available (ref: [piped-base Dockerfile](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/blob/master/tool/piped-base/Dockerfile)). If you want to use your commands, you can:

- Prepare your own environment container image then add [piped binary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases) to it.
- Build your own container image based on `ghcr.io/pipe-cd/piped` image.
- Manually update your running piped container (not recommended).

Commit message:

Add default env for script run (#5002)
* Add default env for script run

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Add default env for script run rollback

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Make ContextInfo to use deployment info for script run stage

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Add docs

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Change env name

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Add test

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Add Summary value

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

* Set omitempty

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Yoshiki Fujikane <ffjlabo@gmail.com>

docs/content/en/docs-dev/user-guide/managing-application/customizing-deployment/script-run.md, after:

---
title: "Script Run stage"
linkTitle: "Script Run stage"
weight: 4
description: >
   Specific guide for configuring Script Run stage
---

`SCRIPT_RUN` stage is one stage in the pipeline and you can execute any commands.

> Note: This feature is at the alpha status and currently only for the application kind of KubernetesApp.

## How to configure SCRIPT_RUN stage

Add a `SCRIPT_RUN` to your pipeline and write commands. 

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: canary-with-script-run
  labels:
    env: example
    team: product
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
        with:
          replicas: 10%
      - name: WAIT
        with:
          duration: 10s
      - name: SCRIPT_RUN
        with:
          env:
            MSG: "execute script1"
          run: |
            echo $MSG
            sleep 10
      - name: K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      - name: K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
      - name: SCRIPT_RUN
        with:
          env:
            MSG: "execute script2"
          run: |
            echo $MSG
            sleep 10
```

You can define the command as `run`.
Also, if you want to some values as variables, you can define them as `env`.

The commands run in the directory where this application configuration file exists.

![](/images/script-run.png)

## Default environment values

You can use the envrionment values related to the deployment.

| Name | Description | Example |
|-|-|-|
|SR_DEPLOYMENT_ID| The deployment id | 877625fc-196a-40f9-b6a9-99decd5494a0 |
|SR_APPLICATION_ID| The application id | 8d7609e0-9ff6-4dc7-a5ac-39660768606a |
|SR_APPLICATION_NAME| The application name | example |
|SR_TRIGGERED_AT| The timestamp when the deployment is triggered  | 1719571113 |
|SR_TRIGGERED_COMMIT_HASH| The commit hash that triggered the deployment | 2bf969a3dad043aaf8ae6419943255e49377da0d |
|SR_REPOSITORY_URL| The repository url configured in the piped config  | git@github.com:org/repo.git, https://github.com/org/repo |
|SR_SUMMARY| The summary of the deployment | Sync with the specified pipeline because piped received a command from user via web console or pipectl
 |
|SR_CONTEXT_RAW| The json encoded string of above values | {"deploymentID":"877625fc-196a-40f9-b6a9-99decd5494a0","applicationID":"8d7609e0-9ff6-4dc7-a5ac-39660768606a","applicationName":"example","triggeredAt":1719571113,"triggeredCommitHash":"2bf969a3dad043aaf8ae6419943255e49377da0d","repositoryURL":"git@github.com:org/repo.git","labels":{"env":"example","team":"product"}} |
|SR_LABEL_XXX| The label attached to the deployment. The env name depends on the label name. For example, if a deployment has the labels `env:prd` and `team:server`, `SR_LABEL_ENV` and `SR_LABEL_TEAM` are registered.  | prd, server |

## Rollback

You can define the command as `onRollback` to execute when to rollback similar to `run`.
Execute the command to rollback SCRIPT_RUN to the point where the deployment was canceled or failed.

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: canary-with-script-run
  labels:
    env: example
    team: product
  pipeline:
    stages:
      - name: K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
        with:
          replicas: 10%
      - name: WAIT
        with:
          duration: 10s
      - name: SCRIPT_RUN
        with:
          env:
            MSG: "execute script1"
            R_MSG: "rollback script1"
          run: |
            echo $MSG
            sleep 10
          onRollback: |
            echo $R_MSG
            sleep 10
      - name: K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
      - name: K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
```

![](/images/script-run-onRollback.png)

The command defined as `onRollback` is executed as `SCRIPT_RUN_ROLLBACK` stage after each `ROLLBACK` stage.

When there are multiple SCRIPT_RUN stages, they are executed in the same order as SCRIPT_RUN on the pipeline.
Also, only for the executed SCRIPT_RUNs are rollbacked.

For example, consider when deployment proceeds in the following order from 1 to 7.
```
1. K8S_CANARY_ROLLOUT
2. WAIT
3. SCRIPT_RUN
4. K8S_PRIMARY_ROLLOUT
5. SCRIPT_RUN
6. K8S_CANARY_CLEAN
7. SCRIPT_RUN
```

Then
- If 3 is canceled or fails while running, only SCRIPT_RUN of 3 will be rollbacked.
- If 4 is canceled or fails while running, only SCRIPT_RUN of 3 will be rollbacked.
- If 6 is canceled or fails while running, only SCRIPT_RUNs 3 and 5 will be rollbacked. The order of executing is 3 -> 5.

## Note
1. You can use `SCRIPT_RUN` stage with only the application kind of `KubernetesApp`. Soon we will implement it. for other application kinds.

2. The public piped image available in PipeCD main repo (ref: [Dockerfile](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/blob/master/cmd/piped/Dockerfile)) is based on [alpine](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine/) and only has a few UNIX command available (ref: [piped-base Dockerfile](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/blob/master/tool/piped-base/Dockerfile)). If you want to use your commands, you can:

- Prepare your own environment container image then add [piped binary](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases) to it.
- Build your own container image based on `ghcr.io/pipe-cd/piped` image.
- Manually update your running piped container (not recommended).
